---
title: Features
---

# Features of nymea:core

### Clients /API

* User and Password Authentication
* Push Button Authentication - Authentication without username and password
* Encrypted Connection - Every connection from the client can be encrypted
* Debug Web Interface - Get all of the information about the system from a user friendly interface
* Remote Connection - Remote connection without any router, DNS or VPN server configuration needed
* Push Notifications - Available for Android and iOS smart phones
* Avahi Network Discovery
* UPnP Network Discovery
* Device categories - The interfaces define the type of the device - checks if it is a Lamp, Sensor, or Door, etc.
* Tags - Tags can be rooms, favorites, buildings, or whatever you define
* Snap Integration - Control Updates
* WiFi Setup - integration of BerryLan to setup the WiFi over Bluetooth

### Rule Engine

* Event based Actions - For example, you can set your blinds to go up, when the sun rises. 
* Actions triggered on State changes - For example, if your door lock state has changed send a push notification and add the status (change) to the body of the notification.
* Action based on certain state values - For example, if your door lock state has changed to locked, activate the alarm as well.
* Time triggered Actions - For example, every Tuesday and Thursday turn the hot tub heating "ON" at 4PM and turn it off at 8PM
* Device type based actions - For example, when you press a button, turn all lights off. 
* Value takeover - For example, if a message is received, send a push notification with the content of the message as the body of the notification.

# Getting started with *nymead*
--------------------------------------------
Once you have installed *nymea* successfully you can start the *nymead* daemon. There are two ways to start nymead:

* starting nymea as daemon (service)
* starting nymea as application (terminal application) and see the full debug output.

In order to get help, just type in the terminal `nymead -h`:

    $ nymead -h
    Usage: nymead [options]
    
    nymea is an open source IoT (Internet of Things) server, 
    which allows to control a lot of different devices from many different 
    manufacturers. With the powerful rule engine you are able to connect any 
    device available in the system and create individual scenes and behaviors 
    for your environment.
    
    nymead 0.9.0 © 2014-2018 guh GmbH
    Released under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 2.
    
    API version: 1.3
    
    
    Options:
      -h, --help                                Displays this help.
      -v, --version                             Displays version information.
      -n, --no-daemon                           Run nymead in the foreground, not
                                                as daemon.
      -p, --print-all                           Enables all debug categories.
                                                Single debug categories can be
                                                disabled again with -d parameter.
      -l, --log <logfile>                       Specify a log file to write to, if
                                                this option is not specified, logs
                                                will be printed to the standard
                                                output.
      --session                                 If specified, all D-Bus interfaces
                                                will be bound to the session bus
                                                instead of the system bus.
      -d, --debug-category <[No]DebugCategory>  ...


Also a manual page is available:

    $ man nymead

By default, `nymead` will start as a daemon. If you want to start nymead as an application, you can pass the parameter `-n` and it will start in the foreground. 

If you want to see a special debug category, you can pass that category to the parameter. You can find all available categories in the help message (`nymead -h`):

> **Example:** start nymead in the foreground and enable the `JsonRpc` and `Hardware` and disable the `DeviceManager` debug messages:

    $ nymead -n -d JsonRpc -d Hardware -d NoDeviceManager

## Systemd service

The `nymead` package also provides systemd service, which allows you to start, stop, restart and get the status of the *nymea*-daemon.

Start the service:

    $ sudo systemctl start nymead

Stop the service:

    $ sudo systemctl stop nymead

Restart the service:

    $ sudo systemctl restart nymead

Get the status of the service:

    $ sudo systemctl status nymead

### Autostart nymead
If you want to auto start nymead on boot, you can enable the service by calling the following command:

    $ sudo systemctl enable nymead
    
    Created symlink from /etc/systemd/system/multi-user.target.wants/nymead.service to /etc/systemd/system/nymead.service.

### Disable autostart nymead
If you want to disable auto starting nymead on boot, use the following command:

    $ sudo systemctl disable nymead
    
    Removed symlink /etc/systemd/system/multi-user.target.wants/nymead.service.

### Follow debug output

If you have nymead running in the background (as daemon and started with systemd) you can see the live debug out by monitoring the log file. You can do that with the following command:

    $ journalctl -f -u nymead


### Add a custom plugins path

If you want nymead to load plugins from a custom directory, like a build directory of a nymea plugin, you can add the path to the environment variable by passing the following command:

    $ sudo NYMEA_PLUGINS_PATH=/path/to/plugin nymead -n -p

As an alternative, you can also export the environment variable NYMEA_PLUGINS_PATH for the current bash session like this:

    $ export NYMEA_PLUGINS_PATH=/path/to/plugin
    $ nymead -n -p

You can also export mulitiple paths by splitting them with the `:` character:

    $ export NYMEA_PLUGINS_PATH=/path/to/plugin:/path/to/other/plugin
    $ nymead -n -p

You can check in the debug output if the path will be used to load plugins and which plugins where loaded from that directories. 
