---
title: Extended setup on RPi 2/3
---

# Use *nymea* on the Raspberry Pi 2/3
--------------------------------------------

This tutorial shows you how to install *nymea* on the [Raspberry Pi 2/3](https://www.raspberrypi.org/). The easiest and recommended way is to use the preconfigured image provided by *nymea*. If you already have a running operating system and you want to install nymea there, please follow the [installation instructions](/en/wiki/nymea/master/install).

## The nymea images

We provide images of two different systems for the Raspberry Pi 2/3:

You can check the [download section](https://downloads.guh.io/images/rpi3/) for the overview of all available images and the md5sums.

* Ubuntu bionic 18.04.2: This is the newest official image. It features nymea:core and nymea:app in a all-in-one bundle. It works for Raspberry Pi 2/3 for setup with and without touch screen. This image is officially tested with the Raspberry Pi 2 and 3 and with the official Raspberry Pi 7" touch screen but it should also work with any other touchscreen connected to the RPi.  **We recommend to use this system**.

You can download the latest ubuntu version here:

→ [nymea-ubuntu-18.04.2-latest-armhf+raspi.img.xz](https://downloads.nymea.io/images/nymea-community/nymea-ubuntu-18.04.2-201906251337-armhf+raspi.img.xz)

* Debian stretch 9.0: This image is based on the default stable debian stretch 9.0 repositories. The kernel, bootloader and Raspberry Pi related packages are installed directly from the [raspbian repository](https://www.raspbian.org/RaspbianRepository) and you get all the updates from the official Raspberry Pi community. This image contains also the [nymea-networkmanager](https://github.com/guh/nymea-networkmanager) for an easy wifi setup.

You can download the latest debian version here:

→ [nymea-debian-stretch-9-armhf-raspberry-pi-3.img.xz](https://downloads.guh.io/images/rpi3/nymea-debian-stretch-9-armhf-raspberry-pi-3.img.xz)

→ [nymea-debian-stretch-9-armhf-raspberry-pi-3.zip](https://downloads.guh.io/images/rpi3/nymea-debian-stretch-9-armhf-raspberry-pi-3.zip)


If you want to get more information about the build process of thouse images, you can take a look at the build scripts:

https://github.com/guh/nymea-image-builder


-----------------------------------------------------
### Download and extract your image

We provide two different image file.

* The `.zip` file: This file contains the compressed `.img` file and should be used if you are not working on a Linux computer. You can find the instructions how to flash a `.img` image file on your SD card using Windows or MacOS [here](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/).

* The `img.xz` file: This file contains the xz compressed `.img` file and makes the flash proccess faster and easier on Linux systems.


-----------------------------------------------------
### Flash the image to the micro SD card:

Assuming you are working on a Linux system, you can flash the images with following instructions. We strongly recommend to use a **Class 10** SD card with a minumal size of **2 GB**.

#### Using xzcat

> **Note:** Please replace `sdX` with the device of your SD card. You can use `lsblk` to check which device is your SD card.

    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get upgrade
    $ sudo apt-get install xz-utils
    
    $ xzcat nymea-debian-stretch-9-armhf-raspberry-pi-3.img.xz | sudo dd bs=4M of=/dev/sdX


#### Using zip file

> **Note:** Please replace `sdX` with the device of your SD card. You can use `lsblk` to check which device is your SD card.

    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get upgrade
    $ sudo apt-get install zip
    
    $ unzip image-file.zip
    $ sudo dd if=nymea-debian-stretch-9-armhf-raspberry-pi-3.img of=/dev/sdX bs=4M


Once the process is finished you can insert the micro SD card into your Raspberry Pi 2/3 and power it on.

-----------------------------------------------------

### Login

You can try to connect to the Raspberry Pi using the hostname of the device (`nymea`):

    $ ssh nymea@nymea.local    # password: nymea

Depending on the network setup `avahi` sometimes does not work. In that case you can connect to the device using the IP address:

> **Note:** Please replace `192.168.0.X` with the ip of your Raspberry Pi.

    $ ssh nymea@192.168.0.X    # password: nymea

Please make an update on the new system to make sure there is the newest version of `nymea` installed:

    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get dist-upgrade


-----------------------------------------------------
### Post installation (optional)

#### Set up timezone

You can select your timezone using following command:

    $ tzselect

Once you have selected your timezone, you can run the following command:
> **Note:** Replace `Europe/Vienna` with your selected timezone. You can get the list of avilable time zones using `ls /usr/share/zoneinfo/`

    $ sudo echo "Europe/Vienna" > /etc/timezone
    $ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -f noninteractive tzdata

#### Change password (recommended)

    $ passwd
    
    Changing password for nymea.
    (current) UNIX password: nymea
    Enter new UNIX password:
    Retype new UNIX password:
    passwd: password updated successfully


You can proceed with the [Getting-Started](en/wiki/nymea/master/getting-started) instructions.
