---
title: nymea scripting
---
# nymea scripting
As of version 0.18 nymea supports scripting using JavaScript and QML. Scripting can be used to 
automate behaviors, similar to rules, but are aimed towards a more advanced usage of nymea. While 
scripting requires a basic understanding of the JavaScript programming language, it also features 
a much more powerful way to interact with nymea.

> It is recommended to install nymea:app on a PC in order to use the script editor.
    
## Introduction
nymea scripts follows the QML syntax. Please refer to the [QML Documentation](https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qtqml-documents-topic.html)
for details on the QML language.
A script can be thought of like a small app running inside nymea core. As soon as a script has 
been deployed to nymea:core it will be loaded and execution starts. The script might then listen 
to state changes in the system, or use timer events to trigger execute actions in the system.

### Basic structure
An example of a simple nymea script looks like this

    import QtQuick 2.0
    import nymea 1.0

    Item {

    }

This example script will be functional, but it doesn't actually do anything. Depending on the 
purpose of the script, different content may be added inside the Item {} structure. Every script 
must have exactly one item, the so called root item. This root item might contain any number of
child items.

For example, in order to act on a motion sensor detecting presence, such a block can be added:

    import QtQuick 2.0
    import nymea 1.0

    Item {
        DeviceState {
            deviceId: "123456-1234-1234-123456"
            stateName: "isPresent"
            onValueChanged: {
                console.log("Presence detected:", value);
            }
        }
    }

This script will log the text "Presence detected: true" into the script's console when the 
motion sensor detects a person and "Presence detected: false" when the person has left again.

## Available types
The script engine supports all the types as found in the [QML Documentation](https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qtqml-documents-topic.html).
Thos most useful ones for nymea scripts will likely be
    * Timer
    * Repeater
    * ListModel
    * ListElement
    
In addition to those, a set of nymea specific types are supported. The most important ones being:
### DeviceState
A DeviceState is used to watch a certain device's state in the system, or, if the device state 
is writable to set it to a particular value. For instance, a light bulb can be turned on by setting 
its `value` property to `true`
Example:

    DeviceState {
        deviceId: "deviceId"
        stateName: "someState"
        value: true
    }

### DeviceEvent
A DeviceEvent is used to react on events in the system. For instance, a wall switch might have a 
`pressed` event. The following example script would write a log warning whenever the switch is 
pressed.

    DeviceEvent {
        deviceId: "deviceId"
        eventName: "pressed"
        onTriggered: console.warn("Button pressed!")
    }

### DeviceAction
A DeviceAction is used to execute an action on a particular device. For instance, a push notification
to can be sent to a phone running nymea:app with this example script:

    DeviceAction {
        id: notificationAction
        deviceId: "deviceId"
        actionName: "notify"
    }
    ...
    notificationAction.execute({"title": "Hello", "body": "nymea rocks!"})
